Pd 479 create ddns migration article (#1908)
truenas/documentation: content/SCALE/SCALETutorials/SystemSettings/Services/DDNSServiceMigrate.md

---
title: "Migrating from Dynamic DNS Service to DDNS Updater App"
description: "This article provides instructions for users migrating from the SCALE Dynamic DNS service to the new ddns-updater application." 

> weight: 15

Author: actually, I need to change this weight to get it in the right order.

aliases:
tags:
- scaleddns
---

> {{< include file="content/_includes/SCALEServiceDeprecationNotice.md" type="page" >}}

Author: I'll ponder this.

> {{< include file="content/_includes/SCALEServiceDeprecationNotice.md" type="page" >}}

Author: The deprecation applies to the service not the application so in this instance, the deprecation notice applies only to the service but I might remove this notice about the deprecated service or use a different snippet to inform users of the change

* Review your Dynamic DNS service settings and note all provider, domain, IP address, port number, URL and credential (username and password) settings.

If establishing a new provider, create the user account before proceeding. Otherwise, use the existing provider details.

If you want to grant access to a specific user (and group) other than using the defaults, add the new non-root administrative user and take note of the UID and GID for this user.

## Migrating from TrueNAS Dynamic DNS Service

After disabling the dynamamic DNS service, install the ddns-updater application. Go to **Apps** click on **Available Applications** and locate the **ddns-updater** application widget.

{{< trueimage src="/images/SCALE/22.12/ddnsUpdaterAppWidget.png" alt="ddns-updater Application Widget" id="1 ddns-updater Application Widget" >}}

Click **Install** to open the **ddns-updater** configuration wizard.

Select the timezone that applies to your server location from the **Timezone** dropdown list.

Click **Add** to the right of **DNS Provider Configuration** to display provider setting options. 
Select the DDNS provider from the **Provider** dropdown list. 

> Each provider displays the settings required to establish a connection with and authenticate to that provider. 

Reviewer: Would this be clearer with something like:

Once a provider is selected, the **DNS Provider Configuration** box will display the settings fields required to establish a connection with and authenticate to that provider.

Author: never use the word will in a procedure document. It either does or does not do something. Keep to present tense active voice. :-)

{{< trueimage src="/images/SCALE/22.12/ddns-updaterDNSProviderConfigAdd.png" alt="ddns-updater Add DNS Provider Configuration" id="2 Add ddns-updater Provider Configuration" >}}

{{< hint type=info >}}
The SCALE service dynamic DNS list includes providers not on the ddns-Updater application list. 
If the service configuration uses a service not in the application, create a new account with a provider on the list in the ddns-updater application.
{{< /hint >}}

The update period default for the SCALE service is different from the application. Accept the default settings.

{{< trueimage src="/images/SCALE/22.12/ddns-updaterConfigPeriodSettings.png" alt="ddns-updater Provider Settings" id="3 Add ddns-updater Provider Settings" >}}

> Add the address(es) for the [shoutrrr gopher notification service(s)](https://containrrr.dev/shoutrrr/0.7/services/overview/) you want to use. Separate each entry with a comma.

Reviewer: Is configuring shoutrrr notifications required or optional? If optional, maybe an _If... any_ would be better than _Add... the_

Author: It is unclear if it is optional so I included the instructions.

> Enter either the IPv4 or IPv6 HTTP public provider and the public fetcher IP addreses you want to use or select **All** in each field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enter the IPv4 or IPv6 HTTP public provider(s) and the public IP fetcher you want to use or select **All providers** in each field.
```

{{< trueimage src="/images/SCALE/22.12/ddns-updaterConfigIPSettings.png" alt="ddns-updater IP Settings" id="4 Add ddns-updater IP Settings" >}}

Select **Host Network** to bind to the host network, but we recommend leaving this disabled.

Select the **DDNS Updater Data Storage** option from the **Type** dropdown list. Options are the iXVolume or host path.

Click **Save**.

{{< taglist tag="scaleddns" limit+"10" title="Related Dynamic DDNS" >}}

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
